# 24_7 POWER GENERATION USING GRAVITATIONAL FORCE

# ABSTRACT:

The traditional analytical method has low precision and narrow application range. This project focuses on load deflection considering boom gap. Firstly, the decomposition of the load is carried out a long the radial and tangential direction of the boom, and the deflection produced by each component force is respectively calculated with Moore integral. The influence of the boom gap on the crane deflection is analysed and the deflection correction method when considering boom gap is put forward. Finally the total deflection of the boom and the hook location considering boom deflection can be obtained. The experimental prototype includes gravity pulley setup for stand alone power generation which gets connected to the controller unit as power supply. The energy generated from the pulley is stored in battery for driving ad load. Here in our project we have used PIC microcontroller as a brain and it will display the current operation of the power generator in the 16x2LCD display. By adopting this technology we can generate the power supply uninterruptedly every hours the gravity of the earth will be available each and every hour and this method of power generation will play the major role in generation of power supply in future.
 




# EXISTING SYSTEM:
 • Load balancing technique is used for balancing the load. 
• The deflection of the boom is mainly determined by the angle of the boom elevation, working condition and lifting load. 

# PROPOSEDSYSTEM:
 • The self-weight of the boom is transformed into the force at the end of the boom thus an unstable loading condition is achieved.
 • The total deflection of the boom and the hook location considering boom deflection can be obtained.
 • Energy generated by the pulley Is continuously stored in a battery.

 # APPLICATIONS:
 • It Is an alternative for generation of power using solar energy and wind energy. 
• It can be used at any place and cost efficient.
• Easy construction and can be used in every house.


Bit Details  	High Value(1)  	Low Value(0)
EA	Least significant 5 bits can decide enable or disable of these five interrupts.	Disable all five interrupts. It just ignores the rest five bits.
ES	Enable Serial Port Interrupt	Disable Serial Port Interrupt
ET1	Enable Timer1 interrupt	Disable Timer1 interrupt
EX1	Enable external interrupt 1 (INT1)	Disable external interrupt 1 (INT1)
ET0	Enable Timer0 interrupt	Disable Timer0 interrupt
EX0	Enable external interrupt 0 (INT0)	Disable external interrupt 0 (INT0)


